Addition of a causes link type (#139)
openjdk/guide: src/guide/jbs-jdk-bug-system.md

   * For Project internal changes intended to be integrated to a Project repository rather than the JDK or JDK Updates repositories, the [Fix Version/s]{.jbs-field} should be set to [internal]{.jbs-value}, or if the [Project](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#project) is large enough to have its own [repo-*]{.jbs-value} fix version, use that.
   * Only one [Fix Version/s]{.jbs-field} should ever be set. If the issue is to be fixed in additional releases then separate backport issues must be created (see [Working with backports in JBS]). There are exceptions to this rule for CSRs and Release Notes.
1. Make sure the bug has all the required labels – see [JBS Label Dictionary].
   * Changes that don't affect product code, but are only against the regression test, or problem-listing: [[noreg-self]{.jbs-label}](#noreg-self)
   * Changes that don't affect product code, but are only against documentation: [[noreg-doc]{.jbs-label}](#noreg-doc)
   * Well contained issues that seem to be easy to fix: [[starter]{.jbs-label}](#starter)
   * Enhancements that are pure cleanups: [[cleanup]{.jbs-label}](#cleanup)
   * Project specific issues usually have their own labels as well

> 1. Managing regressions - for a bug (B) where behavior has _incorrectly_ changed from a previous fix (A) sure that the label [[regression]{.jbs-label}](#regression) is added.  Once it is known what fix caused the regression a 'caused by' link should be added to 'B' or a causes link to 'A'. A ‘causes’ link would be added to A if after the integration or release of A it is found that additional work needs to be done. This might be that extra work in another area forgotten and needs to be completed or the more common case would be that a fix ‘causes’ a change of behavior (intentional or otherwise).  If 'A' has been identifed as well as a caused-by link to that issue and set the [Introduced in Build]{.jbs-field} and [Introduced in Version]{.jbs-field} fields of 'B', based on which release 'A' was fixed in.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Managing regressions - for a bug (B) where behavior has _incorrectly_ changed from a previous fix (A) ensure that the label [[regression]{.jbs-label}](#regression) is added.  Once it is known what fix caused the regression a ’caused by’ link should be added to 'B' or a ‘causes’ link to 'A'. A ‘causes’ link would be added to A if after the integration or release of A it is found that additional work needs to be done. This might be that extra work in another area forgotten and needs to be completed or the more common case would be that a fix ‘causes’ a change of behavior (intentional or otherwise).  If 'A' has been identified as well as a caused-by link to that issue and set the [Introduced in Build]{.jbs-field} and [Introduced in Version]{.jbs-field} fields of 'B', based on which release 'A' was fixed in.  
```

In “…a ’caused by’ link should be added to 'B' or a ‘causes’ link to 'A'”, the word “causes” needs the single-quotes to refer to the type of the link. (Also for consistency with other instances.)

In “…that a fix _‘causes’_ a change of behavior…”, the word “causes” should not have the quotes because the verb is used in its literal meaning rather being a type.

I find it really hard to understand the last two sentences in this paragraph. “This might be that extra work in another area was forgotten…” — is “was” missing here? The part after “or”: if I understand correctly, _“the more common case”_ is a clarification, wrapping it the commas, dashes or parentheses could be easier to understand. However, it it's the most common case, should it be listed first, instead?

In the last sentence, “If 'A' has been identified as well as a caused-by link…” what does “as well as” compare to? Is it just “as”? And the link type should have the single quotes around it and not have the hyphen “…as a _‘caused by’_ link…”.

Using italics for marking up the link type (in addition to the single quotes) could clarify where the text refers to a type rather than uses the verbs literally.

Author: restructured a bit

> 1. Managing regressions - for a bug (B) where behavior has _incorrectly_ changed from a previous fix (A) ensure that the label [[regression]{.jbs-label}](#regression) is added.  Once it is known what fix caused the regression a [caused by]{.jbs-value} link should be added to 'B' or a [causes]{.jbs-value} link to 'A'. A [causes]{.jbs-value} link would also be added to A if the fix _causes_ a change of behavior (intentional or otherwise) or it is found after integration, that additional work needs to be done. If 'A' has been identified as well as a adding a [caused by]{.jbs-value} link to that issue, set the [Introduced in Build]{.jbs-field} and [Introduced in Version]{.jbs-field} fields of 'B', based on which release 'A' was fixed in.  Do not add a [caused by]{.jbs-value} link if there was no specific product fix which _caused it_, for example, the addition of a test which finds an underlying problem should not be linked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Managing regressions - for a bug (B) where behavior has _incorrectly_ changed from a previous fix (A), ensure that the label [[regression]{.jbs-label}](#regression) is added.  Once it is known what fix caused the regression a [caused by]{.jbs-value} link should be added to 'B' or a [causes]{.jbs-value} link to 'A'. A [causes]{.jbs-value} link would also be added to 'A' if the fix _causes_ a change of behavior (intentional or otherwise) or it is found after integration, that additional work needs to be done. If 'A' has been identified as well as a adding a [caused by]{.jbs-value} link to that issue, set the [Introduced in Build]{.jbs-field} and [Introduced in Version]{.jbs-field} fields of 'B', based on which release 'A' was fixed in.  Do not add a [caused by]{.jbs-value} link if there was no specific product fix which _caused it_, for example, the addition of a test which finds an underlying problem should not be linked.
```

“If 'A' has been identified as well as” — identified as what? It looks as if something's missing…  
Would it be better to say, “~~as well as~~ in addition to adding a [caused by]{.jbs-value} link to that issue, set the…?

This way is clearer, in my opinion.

I'd move the _Introduced in Version_ field before _Introduced in Build_ as the version is more important.

Author: made the changes

Author: done

Some additional fields should be filled out or updated as you get a better understanding of the issue:

* The [Description]{.jbs-field} usually explains what went wrong and how the failure was found, then there's some investigation and eventually the root cause is found. At this point the [Summary]{.jbs-field} should be updated to correctly describe the bug. The [Description]{.jbs-field} however should remain a description of how the failure was found.
* The [Affects Version/s]{.jbs-field} should be updated if you in your investigation finds that the issue is older than what is indicated by the current [Affects Version/s]{.jbs-field}.

### Linking Issues

> An important aspect of any issue is making clear how it is connected/related to other issues. This can occur at any stage of the issue's lifecycle. For example, as information becomes available that might suggest a cause, or similar issue (relates to); or when a Backport or CSR request is created; or when closing as a duplicate of another issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important aspect of any issue is making clear how it is connected/related to other issues. This can occur at any stage of the issue's lifecycle. For example, as information becomes available that might suggest a cause, or similar issue (relates to).
```
This should be enough as an example. The following list presents what link types are available and their meaning.

Author: updated

> There are the following link types:

Reviewer: I suggest marking up the issue type with bold `**` if not with `<dt>` and using a descriptive sentence maybe, for example:

> **‘duplicate of’** is normally set automatically when another issue is closed as a _‘duplicate’_, see \[Closing issues as duplicates\] for more information.
> 
> **‘backported by’** is set automatically when a fix is pushed to an older release or when a backport is created manually using the **More** -> **Create Backport** option.

The list would be easier to read if the description of all the link types followed the same pattern.

Author: should now be consistent

> ’duplicate of` - Normally set automatically - see [Closing issues as duplicates] for more information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
‘duplicate of’ - Normally set automatically - see [Closing issues as duplicates] for more information
```

Does markdown support a definition list? Should we use HTML `<dl>` and `<dt>`, `<dd>` tags to mark up the list?

Author: not at the moment it seems in commonmark - https://talk.commonmark.org/t/description-list/289/41

> ‘backported by’ - Normally set automatically when creating a backport with the “More -> Create Backport” option

Reviewer: Or when the backport is integrated?

Author: added a mention of Skara

> An important aspect of any issue is making clear how it is connected/related to other issues, this linking is done when closing an issue - such as marking an issue as a duplicate and [adding a duplicate link](#closing-issues-as-duplicates) or when using the ‘Create Backport’ or ‘Create CSR’ options are used which we automatically create ‘backported by’ or ‘csr for’ links (never create an issue of type Backport or CSR by hand). The other use of linking is to associate an issue with one or more other issues that share some relation with the issue and is done during the triage or resolution of the issue.

Reviewer 2: Linking can occur at any stage of an issue's lifecycle: when it is filed, when it is triaged, when it is being worked upon, or when it is being closed. Suggestion:
> An important aspect of any issue is making clear how it is connected/related to other issues. This can occur at any stage of the issue's lifecycle. For example, as information becomes available that might suggest a cause, or similar issue; or when a Backport or CSR request is created; or when closing as a duplicate of another issue.

Author: done
I think we may want to emphasis that backports should not be created by hand - but perhaps that should be in the backport section - I'll look at that along with your last point

> [CSR for]{.jbs-value} - When creating a CSR with the “More -> Create CSR” option a link is automatically created between the main issue and the new CSR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CSR for]{.jbs-value} - When creating a CSR with the “More -> Create CSR” option, a link is automatically created between the main issue and the new CSR
```

> ’duplicate of` - See [Closing issues as duplicates] for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
’duplicate of` - Normally set automatically - see [Closing issues as duplicates] for more information.
```

Author: done

> ‘backported by’ - When creating a backport with the “More -> Create Backport” option a link is automatically created between the main issue and the new Backport

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
‘backported by’ - Normally set automatically when creating a backport with the “More -> Create Backport” option
```

Author: done

> ‘CSR for’ - When creating a CSR with the “More -> Create CSR” option a link is automatically created between the main issue and the new CSR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
‘CSR for’ - Normally created automatically when creating a CSR with the “More -> Create CSR” option a link
```

Author: done

> ‘blocks’ - when a fix is broken down into a number of parts the ‘blocks’ link should be used to ensure they are all fixed before the main issue is considered resolved - see [implementing large changes](#implementing-large-changes]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
‘blocks’ - For when other issues are dependent on the current issue being resolved/fixed before they can be. For example, when a fix is broken down into a number of parts the ‘blocks’ link should be used to ensure they are all fixed before the main issue is considered resolved - see [implementing large changes](#implementing-large-changes]
```

Author: done

> [relates to]{.jbs-value} - To avoid lots of relates links, the links should have some significance in relation to the cause and/or fix, for the current issue. In addition, relates links should not duplicate an existing [duplicated by]{.jbs-value}, [backported by]{.jbs-value}, [csr for]{.jbs-value} or [blocked by]{.jbs-value} link.  In particular, it may be necessary to manually remove a [relates to]{.jbs-value} link if it is later added as a [duplicated by]{.jbs-value} or [caused by]{.jbs-value} link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[relates to]{.jbs-value} - To avoid lots of relates links, the links should have some significance in relation to the cause and/or fix for the current issue. In addition, relates links should not duplicate an existing [duplicated by]{.jbs-value}, [backported by]{.jbs-value}, [csr for]{.jbs-value} or [blocked by]{.jbs-value} link.  In particular, it may be necessary to manually remove a [relates to]{.jbs-value} link if it is later added as a [duplicated by]{.jbs-value} or [caused by]{.jbs-value} link
```

The comma in the end of the first sentence is not need, is it?

Should “relates links” be replaced with “relates to links” in the first two sentences? An italics could be used to mark them up to make it clear that these words refer to a type of the link.

Author: the comma is fine, updated the first relates

> ‘relates to’ - there are no rules as to when or why to create a relates link apart from not duplicating an existing “duplicated by”, ‘backported by’, ‘csr for’ or ‘blocked by’ links. In general, you should link any other issue that has a bearing on the situation where you feel the related issue should be reviewed in order to have a better understanding of what is going on

Reviewer 2: I'd also caution against excessive linking with "relates to" - for example, if a test fails you should not link every other issue with which this test has been previously been associated just because the same test was involved. The "relates to" issue should have some significance in relation to the cause and/or fix, for the current issue.

Note that it is often the case that a "relates to" situation is later determined to be a "duplicates" situation, in which case you have to manually delete the "relates to link" after Closing. (I wonder if JBS could automate that?)

Author: reworded the section to make it clearer that relates links should have 'some significance' - agreed it would be useful if JIRA could update the relates link if it later used as a duplicate.  Will see if there is a way to spot this so that they might be manually cleaned up

> ‘causes’/‘caused by’ - the causes link implies a stronger relationship than relates. If an issue B is filed which can be traced back to the fix for issue A then ‘A causes B’ (or ‘B was caused by A’)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
‘causes’/‘caused by’ - the ‘causes’ link implies a stronger relationship than ‘relates to’. If an issue 'B' is traced back to the fix for issue 'A' then ‘A causes B’ (or ‘B was caused by A’)
```
Should it be ‘B _is_ caused by A’?

In the above text about regressions, issue A and B have dumb single quotes around them. This should be consistent here, therefore I added them in the suggestion.

Author: I think the past-tense makes sense, have added the quotes

> [causes]{.jbs-value}/[caused by]{.jbs-value} - the causes link implies a stronger relationship than relates. If an issue 'B' can be traced back to the fix for issue 'A' then ‘A causes B’ (or ‘B was caused by A’)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[causes]{.jbs-value}/[caused by]{.jbs-value} - the _causes_ link implies a stronger relationship than _relates_. If an issue 'B' can be traced back to the fix for issue 'A' then ‘A causes B’ (or ‘B is caused by A’)
```

Mark up the type of the link; use the same tense for both *‘A causes B’* and *‘B is caused by A’*.

Author: done

> ‘causes’/‘caused by’ - the causes link implies a stronger relationship than relates. If an issue B is filed which can be traced back to the fix for issue A then ‘A causes B’ (or ‘B was caused by A’).  A ‘causes’ link would be added to A if after the integration or release of A it is found that additional work needs to be done. This might be that extra work in another area forgotten and needs to be completed or the more common case would be that a fix ‘causes’ a change of behavior (intentional or otherwise).  For a regression, if you identify the fix that caused it, add a caused-by link to that issue and set the Introduced in Build or Introduced in Version field.  Whenever looking to backport a fix the developer should look for both ‘blocked by’ and ‘causes’ links in order to understand the set of fixes that should be backported. Likewise, if A has already been backported the new causes linked issues will need to be assessed to see if it is important enough to be backported as well. On B make sure to set the [Introduced in Build]{.jbs-field} or [Introduced in Version]{.jbs-field} field.

Reviewer 2: It seems somewhat disproportionate to explain `caused by` in so much depth compared to the others. The backporting notes really belong elsewhere, not in this definition list. I would suggest a simpler and more succinct definition:
> 'causes'/'caused-by' - For when the current issue can be directly attributed to a code change that was integrated under another issue. When such a cause is known you can also set the 'Introduced in Version' and 'Introduced in Build' fields.

Reviewer 2: I also think it will be common for a "relates" link to turn into a "cause" link, in which case we need general instructions about removing multiple links to the same issue. Ideally JBS would let us edit a link and change its type.

Reviewer 3: In some cases a fix can reveal an existing bug, e.g. because it makes an unlikely issue more likely, or because it added more tests which then find an existing bug. From the sound of it, just because a failure started to occur after commit `xyz`, doesn't necessarily mean that that commit 'causes' the issue? Some explicit guidance on whether to apply this link type in such cases would be useful I think.

Author: refactored the text so that it now in more appropriate sections
Jorn - added a sentence "Triaging an Issue" section to cover your point - please review
